---
title: The Tomb
layout: post
tags: 'Fiction'
author: Tom Fishwick
last_modified_at: 2025-09-06
---

Aggie and Jonathan landed their flyer on the island. The island was in the middle of the Pacific Ocean and had been uninhabited since the cataclysm.
If any of the locals had survived they would have told them to stay away from the ruins of the cursed house. But no one could tell them.
Aggie's black hair blew in the wind, Jonathan's long fringe seemed intent on getting into his eyes. Maybe that was why they didn't see the strangers. Burley men with large guns and strange collars on. They shouted in their primitive language at Aggie and Jonathan. Aggie had the presence of mind to call for help and upload the latest copy of her mind through her neural implants. Jonathan decided to try talking to them.

Poe flapped his way out of the shuttle an hour later. The shuttle had dropped practically to sea level and then flown across half the ocean in stealth mode to prevent any undetected anti-aircraft guns from attacking it. While it had done so the military across Earth and near-Earth orbit had gone on high alert. It was not the first time the tombs of old Earth had opened and it was unlikely to be the last. The Empire of Earth, technically a part of the fallen Federation (now a collection of warlords on vaguely speaking terms, rather than the previous galaxy spanning government), had protocols for dealing with such matters.
Poe flew over the island, appearing to all intents and purposes to be a raven. Not a brilliant disguise on an island where there weren't any native ravens, but safer than giving the denizens of the tomb another human to murder. As an AI Poe was supposedly more expendable.
Poe's eyes tracked across the terrain and streamed to the warships now getting into orbit above the island and to control centres in Paris and Selene City over the Moon.
Poe swooped in to land next to the grave the two primitives were digging.

"Hello," he tried in Standard. A somewhat vague hope that they spoke anything like that.

"What was that?" One of the men exclaimed in his ancient dialect. Dropping his shovel and looking around for his gun.

"That would be me," Poe explained in their language. "I came to check on whether or not you had killed them. As that would have determined if this was a hostage situation or not." He pecked at Jonathan's lifeless back. "I'm guessing hostage negotiation is not needed."

Bemused the two men had set down their shovels and were now sitting on the rim of the grave.
"Are you some kind of drone?" One of them asked.

"They have some fancy toys in the post apocalyptic wasteland." The other mentioned.

"The Master put us to sleep for a few centuries to see out the radioactive fallout." The one with the anchor tattoo said.

"Yes I am some sort of drone. I believe that your master was not good with his maths. I believe from your language that you have been asleep for seventy thousand years, give or take a bit. Did your master not expect civilisation to rise back, fall again and go through the cycle a few more times. Or did this master think they were so indispensable that humanity could not cope in their absence?" Poe asked. The other one scratched his nose.

The thinker of the pair was obviously anchor. "The Master was a great and important man back in our world."

"The Empire of Earth gives your Master two choices. Choice one, you and he go back to sleep for another few millennia and we seal the entrance. Then you can see if our civilisation falls and in any case be someone else's problem. Choice two your master deactivates all of your slave collars and hands himself over to the authorities for the doubtless many crimes he is guilty of."

The two of them gathered up their guns and started moving back towards the ancient ruins.
"The Master was a rich and powerful man." The other intoned.

"He would also question the legality of you trying him for anything. The statue of limitations would have expired seventy thousand years ago from what you say." Anchor replied to Poe, who was hopping after them.

"Him keeping you enslaved with explosive shock collars is a crime he is currently committing. As to statue of limitations, well that was done away with a long time ago due to situations such as these." Poe replied.

"Any crimes he may or may not have committed were done in the United States of (untranslatable)." Anchor snapped back. "And this Empire of Earth has no jurisdiction."

"The Empire claims jurisdiction over this entire planet." Poe lied, they did not need to know the situation in Antarctica. "So if that is going to be your master's defense then a summary verdict will be passed."

"The Master is a rich man, his business empire will have survived." Anchor replied.

"If it has, then after seventy thousand years it will have new owners. But I would deem it most unlikely he could find any trace of it." Poe said. They had reached the bunker now and the two men had a hurried conversation with the others in the bunker.

"The Master has supplies of gold, bitcoin and great knowledge that he can trade." Anchor said after they had finished their deliberations.

"I am not sure if you saw it, but there is a giant pyramid a few kilometres away covered in a million tonnes of gold. With about ten thousand similar structures across the planet and millions scattered across the other worlds and space stations in the Federation." Poe replied. He was sure that the two humans would have seen the glint of the pyramid from where they had been digging the grave. "I am unsure what this bitcoin is."

"Its the future of currency!" Exclaimed one of the other guards.

"It wasn't and isn't." Pronounced Poe.

"Fiat shill," muttered the same guard.

"Take it up with the central bank on Midas Station, Vigil System." Poe snapped, he ignored their confused looks.

"The Master has much knowledge of AI, virtual worlds and the internet. He could help you a lot. He would require to talk to this Emperor of Earth though." Anchor replied as if it were a done deal.

"The Emperor is indisposed, on account of being dead for a year. The Regency Council are unlikely to want to be bothered by one of old Earth's petty princelings. Which of the two choices do you want?" Poe asked conversationally.

"You are bluffing bird. The Master will rule this world as he did ours." The other pronounced.

"Choice two then." Poe said and hastily flapped away from the bunker.


Within moments two laser beams struck positions in the ruins and the long concealed anti-aircraft guns exploded. A few minutes later, after further probing attacks from space, a wave of drop pods slammed into the ground around the ruins.
The Marines leapt out of the pods and started establishing a perimeter around the ruins. A few shots from those inside the bunker drew a wave of laser fire from the marines.
A flight of drones hurtled over the island and sent a missile straight through the open bunker door. The bunker door flew off its hinges as the entrance hall exploded.
One of the human marines sent a burst from his flamethrower in through the much more open door to the bunker. Then the robotic assault troopers breached the entrance. They held there while more support arrived.
Heavy shuttles carrying concrete pourers and digging equipment arrived. Scanning teams fanned out to look for the bunker's air vents.
As the number of troops on the island hit two thousand Poe decided to see if negotiations would work again. After all the drill team needed a little while to get ready. "Hello bunker denizens, if you wish to surrender then the Empire will be happy to look favourably on you." He said on the radio frequency he had identified as belonging to the bunker.

"The Master will gladly accept your peasant kingdom's surrender." Came back the response.
Colonel Claps raised an eyebrow at Poe. "Negotiation going well?" He asked, his moustache not covering his grin. He sat in his command tank, Poe stood on one of the desks.

"I think they need more incentive." Poe replied huffily.

"Dig teams can proceed." The Colonel ordered.
The giant drill setup on top of the ruins whirred into life and buried its nose into the dirt. It quickly dropped through a metre of earth before hitting concrete. Its diamond drill bit started chewing through it, behind and above it the digging crew cleared its debris away. Marines watched out in case hostiles appeared from any sally points.
The air vents the teams first found were tiny and didn't take much concrete to fill in. There was some excitement when an underwater cave was found nearby, but no route through was found.
The troops in the entrance way were occasionally shot at by the denizens. Colonel Claps had ordered them to hold position, every other bunker complex like this was a maze of kill zones and traps. So simply smashing through them with the drill was preferred.
Historically these bunker complexes had housed huge armies who had raided the above world for supplies. This had been the reason the world united (eventually) under the Empire.
With an almighty crash the drill went through the ceiling of the upper part of the bunker and struck the floor. Swiftly it was retracted and the hole doused in fire. Bullets shot back out of the hole, felling several of the robotic troops. Grenades, followed by flamethrowers, and then the assault troopers went in again. They established a perimeter while the drill went to work again. Insect drones started scouting out the complex.
The attacks came thick and fast now, the denizens realising that if they left the drill alone it would simply smash its way through the bunker. 

Eight levels further down the marines started branching out into the complex. Blast doors would slam down unexpectedly, oil would spurt out of the walls and gunfire would come from the walls. But the robots could be easily repaired and replaced. The organic troops were milling around on the surface safely out of the way. They hacked into the exposed electrical grid in a control room and plunged the bunker into darkness.
Most of the denizens had been hit with stun rounds, their explosive shock collars often activated so the net result was often that they were killed.
With the electric grid down the marines were able to sweep through the bunker practically unopposed.

Poe fluttered through the bunker, he and Colonel Clamp were inspecting the base. Hundreds of stasis pods had been counted, many of them had failed.
Technicians sorted through the various technology in the bunker. Some they packed up and took with them and other parts they abandoned.
"Satisfied Poe?" The Colonel asked.

"I am," Poe nodded. "Whoever the master was can remain a mystery. Begin the pour."

Deep within the bunker, behind what appeared to be a solid wall, a lone stasis pod opened. The Master took his first breath in seventy thousand years.

"How long has it been computer?" He asked. Not noticing the drips of concrete coming from the only air vent in the room.

"Good morning Master, it has been seventy thousand years. According to the locals," the computer replied.

"How is the company doing?" Asked the Master.

"I have not been in contact with the outside world for most of that time. From my talks with those above, they had not heard of the company." The computer replied.

"Is it safe outside?"

"I believe so, the cameras have been disabled. But I cannot hear anything in the bunker."

"Open the door." The Master ordered.

The door ground open. Outside was a wall of concrete. It began to threatening lean into the room. After several hours of drying time the concrete was not as eager to move as it once had.

"Computer, there is concrete in the bunker."

"Unfortunately so, you can either try to get through before it fully dries or go back to sleep."
