---
title: UI Update
layout: post
tags: Meta Programming
author: Tom Fishwick
# image: /assets/images/rubyChess.jpg
# photo_alt: Chess Game
last_modified_at: 2025-02-11
---

## Main Changes

- Light-Mode and Dark-Mode
- New NavBar
- No more Bootstrap
- WebP versions of images
- Various changes to the home page

## Light-Mode and Dark-Mode

Back in 2021 I came across this website called [Front-End Mentors](https://www.frontendmentor.io/).
One of the projects I did was their responsive home page one and that more or less became my sites new home page.
This created the first Dark-Mode page on my site and then I stopped.
Life got in the way and it got too easy to just ignore it.

The main problem was that I now had two stylesheets, one for the homepage and one for everything else.
So I ignored the homepage.

Then I finally got back into working on the website.
I discovered [Front End Checklist](https://frontendchecklist.io/) which persuaded me to look at improving the site.
Much more importantly through the Indie-Web I discovered the [Light-Dark function in CSS](https://css-tricks.com/come-to-the-light-dark-side/).
Finally a function that could let me combine my two stylesheets into one big one!

## New NavBar

The NavBar has been the bane of this site since day 1.
In its original one page form it consisted of 3 links which jumped you up and down the page.

Then the site expanded and it became something based upon W3Schools NavBar. Which looked horrible and didn't work so well.

Eventually I got bored with how awful it looked and just used Bootstrap's one. This worked and looked great.

Then I evicted the React and Vue JS pages from the repo and needed something that could work across different repos.
I discovered web-components.
Eagerly I converted my old NavBar into some horrific monster that took up over 200 lines of code building from arrays into HTML objects in JavaScript and for the Blog using some Jekyll Liquid magic.

Several things were wrong with it:

1. It required JavaScript for Navigation.
2. It required BootStrap.
3. I had no real control over the style as Bootstrap took care of that.
4. I never really wanted to look or touch it again.

Eagerly I worked my way through the FrontEnd Checklist trying to make the site as efficient as possible.
But ultimately it was futile with the old NavBar, it required Bootstrap's CSS and JS to work.
Meaning Navigation only worked with JavaScript enabled and I was importing vast amounts of CSS and JS that I mostly was using for the NavBar.
A new NavBar was needed.

The new NavBar now has its own web-component for the other sites[^2].
But is itself a Jekyll component, so for the primary site is simply included in the header component.
So it no longer needs Bootstrap or JavaScript.
It also stores my new switch for light and dark mode.
I am not fully happy with its colours for light-mode (I did take both colours off of Bootstrap).
Most importantly it works as an accordion style NavBar for smaller screens and on bigger screens will expand.
For now it is no longer fixed to the top of the screen[^3].
It makes heavy use of the details tag[^4] for the collapsible sections.
Plus to round it off it can use the new WebP version of the logo.

## No more Bootstrap

I love Bootstrap, I use it a lot in my various other sites[^1] and at work.
But this site uses it for the NavBar, forms and buttons.
With making the light-dark mode and the need to check every page for that, it seemed the perfect time to evict Bootstrap.

I have already removed Font-Awesome, as I was using it for a total of 3 icons it seemed complete overkill to have this library.

Plus I've updated the PWA of this site (not sure why I bothered to make it) and it has made HTML Hint happy that it has gone.

## WebP versions of images

Initially I was hesitant about this change.
But I found a good library and tool to crush the images into WebP.
You can hardly tell the two images apart and size-wise the WebP ones are tiny.

## Various changes to the home page

At long last I have removed the modal popup on the Projects and converted these to use the details and summary HTML tags.
I have also been fixing some of the styling issues and structure of some of the areas.
Finally I have admitted that my homepage is HTML and not markdown[^6].

[^1]: And will continue to do so.

[^2]:
    For now the old one will work so that I can find all of the other sites.
    But at some point it will go.

[^3]: I was always in two minds about that. So that might change.

[^4]: My new favourite toy[^5].

[^5]: Only kidding you wonderful markdown footnotes.

[^6]: The only markdown feature in use was on the headings.
