---
title: Charybdis 9
layout: post
tags: Fiction
author: Tom Fishwick
last_modified_at: 2026-04-19
in_reply_to: https://sarajaksa.eu/2026/03/indieweb-fiction-carnival-april-2026-call-for-submission-platonic-soulmates/
---

Alexis Madlenka cycled down the empty corridor, to his left were thousands upon thousands of containers and to his right was a view out into space.
It appeared that the ship was stationary, but it was so far from the local star that there was nothing nearby to judge their speed against.

Alexis had finished his shift in the hydroponics bay.
The Charybdis 9 had a crew only of a hundred or so, spread across three and a half kilometres of ship.
The ship was not quite self-sufficient in resources, but as the ship could sometimes spend months in transit between the stars every little helped.
Much more important than the hydroponics bays were the algae plants, these converted carbon dioxide into oxygen.

He took his bike into the lift and pushed the button for his deck.
The lift rose up through the ship, some lifts were more like trains for transporting cargo but this was a regular passenger lift.
The view was great, straight out into space (which was because the lift had passed out of the starship's hull and Alexis's radiation dose was much higher), anonymous and doubtless important bits of starship passed by the windows.
Then he passed one of the enormous holds of the ship, the interstellar box trade was doing well the ship had visited hundreds of star systems and there were always boxes to drop off and more to collect.
The boxes were obviously happy with the arrangement as they always seemed to be back for another flight.
Some boxes were content to just sit in the hold, some needed power and a rare few needed humans to visit them during the flight, even boxes need company occasionally.

The lift pinged as it reached Alexis's deck, he manoeuvred his bike out of the lift and pedalled more sedately, here he stood more of a chance of bumping into someone.
He soon reached the door to the quarters he shared with Lieutenant Lukas and opened the door.
Lieutenant Lukas eagerly bounded up to the door the moment it opened and sat in the doorway to great him.
"Hello Lukas, how has your day been?" Alexis asked.
Lukas gave a huge yawn showing all of his teeth and then rubbed himself against Alexis's leg.
Alexis gave the cat a stroke, loosening a small cloud of black fur, Lukas contentedly purred.
Alexis sat down by the window, Lukas joined him and purred happily now that his human was back.
